As-salamu alaykum wa rahmatu Allahi wa barakatuhu
Bismillahi r-Rahmani r-Rahim, alhamdulillahi rabbil-alameen, wa s-salatu wa s-salamu ala al-mar'uthi rahmatan lil-alameen,
nabi'ina Muhammadin wa ala alihi wa sahbihi wa t-tabi'ina wa man tabi'ahum bi ihsanin ila yawm al-deen wa ba'a.
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, we send complete blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless him and his entire household,
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless all his companions,
and may he bless every single one of us and grant us goodness and ease.
Beloved brothers and sisters, we thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala for giving us this opportunity to gather in one of his houses,
for indeed with the cold spell that we are facing in this part of the world, masha'Allah,
and the snow that we've heard of in most of the country or parts of the country today,
wallahi, for every moment that we bear this, it is indeed a means of elevation of our status,
and by the will of Allah, we should be grateful,
there are others in other parts of the world who have extremely long fasts,
and at the same time, they have the heat of summer on top of it, may Allah make it easy for them as well,
and we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us all acceptance every single category,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
The Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم and the battle of Uhud,
we had made mention of how the battle took a turn when the Muslims were sandwiched between the little platoon of Khalid ibn al-Walid رضي الله عنه.
At that time, he was not yet a Muslim, he was part of the Mushrik army,
and the army of Makkah on the other side, and they suffered great losses,
and we had made mention of that in quite a bit of detail yesterday.
A point that came to my mind which I felt would have been of interest was,
as I had said previously regarding the battle of Badr,
every war, the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم vetted the people who took part in the war one by one,
and he studied their cases, most of them he would have known them,
so it wouldn't require more than a split second,
but some of the cases he would ask them questions and thereafter send them back or allow them to join the army.
From amongst them were two youngsters, they wanted to take part in the battle of Uhud,
Samurah ibn, in fact, Rafi' ibn Khadij and Samurah ibn Jundub رضي الله عنهما,
two young people in their teenage at the time,
and the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم was sending both of them back,
but he was told that Rafi' ibn Khadij رضي الله عنه was very good at his arrows,
he could aim very well, and he was really really good in his aiming,
so the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم decided to take him with,
and at this point Samurah ibn Jundub رضي الله عنه,
who saw that his friend was going and he was being chased back,
he began to cry, and he says to his stepfather that you know this person,
meaning this person, the other companion is gone,
and yet if the two of us had to fight now,
I would out wrestle him, if we had to wrestle I would put him on the ground in a minute,
so when this news got to Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم he called him back,
he says okay here's the two of you, let's see who can wrestle who,
and do you know what, Subhanallah, Samurah ibn Jundub in no time put Rafi' ibn Khadij on the floor,
Subhanallah, and so the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم allowed them both to take part in this battle of Uhud,
Subhanallah, look at how beautiful it was,
in front of him he told him you can wrestle the two of you,
whoever out wrestles, or if you out wrestle him you will come as it is,
he was already written from amongst those who was meant to go,
so that was a very interesting story,
thereafter the battle took place and as we know when the Muslims were sandwiched,
they suffered great losses,
and at the same time the Kuffar of Quraysh were shocked at the courage of the Muslims,
they were some of the heroes of the battle of Uhud,
and some of these heroes we have to make mention of Sayyid al-Shuhada,
who was Hamzah ibn Abdul Muttalib رضي الله عنه,
although he had not been alive to witness the end of that battle,
but he was one of the first who was actually martyred,
and the killer or the one who killed him was known as Wahshi,
this Wahshi we will speak about him in a few minutes,
but the others who were heroes Talhah ibn Ubaydi Allah رضي الله عنه,
he personally stood around Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم,
and took so many spears and arrows in order to defend Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم,
and this is why in one narration the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم says,
if we were to say whose day this was,
we could comfortably say this was the day of Talhah ibn Ubaydi Allah رضي الله عنه,
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant him Jannah رضي الله عنه وعن الجميع,
the other heroes of this particular war Mus'ab ibn Umayr رضي الله عنه,
we spoke about him yesterday in a little bit of detail,
and we made mention of how he held the flag up with one hand,
when they had cut his hand off, he then held it with the other hand,
and thereafter when they had slipped the other hand,
he then held it close to his chest with the remainder of his hand,
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant us goodness,
he was on that day also martyred,
another one was Sahel ibn Hunayf and Abu Dujana,
Sahel ibn Hunayf was also a warrior who had really engaged in much on that particular day,
and then he lost his life, he was martyred,
and as for Abu Dujana, he was a warrior of note,
he was a man who used to wear a red little rope on his head,
he had a red band on his head that he used to wear when he was very very upset,
and when he was serious in war,
and so this Abu Dujana,
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم lifted his own sword and said,
who will take this sword with its right?
and the people wanted it, some of the Sahabah رضي الله عنهم wanted it,
he did not give anyone, but when Abu Dujana requested it,
he was granted that particular sword,
and he asked what is its right?
So the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم informed him
that you should make use of it right to the end,
and very very true,
this man was seen not only by Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم,
but even by the other companions on that particular day,
up and down, Subhanallah,
and he really defended Islam and the Muslims in a very big way
until he himself was martyred.
Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم says the way he is walking,
the way he is walking through the lines of the enemy,
you know that haughtiness that he is walking with,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala does not like that haughtiness
except in this particular instance,
in the instance of war,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may he make us from those who understand.
Also the angels took part in this particular battle as well,
and remember there is a hadith of Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas
reported in Sahih al-Bukhari,
where he says that I remember seeing people in white
whom I had not known taking part in this battle,
later the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم says
that was Jibreel and Mika'il,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection.
One might ask why was there no decisive victory for the Muslims
if the angels were also there?
Very simple answer,
because they did not follow instructions,
they did not obey the messenger,
they disobeyed the instruction of the messenger
صلى الله عليه وسلم.
And in our lives, let's remember one thing,
wherever we have disobeyed Allah
and wherever we have disobeyed the Rasul of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala,
we will then be suffering some form of a loss
either in the near future or later on
unless we repent before it comes to us.
Allah does us a favor,
in a lot of instances we are given some reprieve, some time.
You know a person is transgressing,
they go against the commands of Allah,
Allah gives them some time
and after they are given perhaps sometimes a few days,
sometimes a few years, sometimes a longer time
and the person continues transgressing,
one day when the rope is pulled,
it is pulled completely.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not do that to us
and may He not punish us.
But if we have repented before the punishment comes,
perhaps it will be diverted by the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala wanted something to happen on that day
and that was a lesson for them.
There was no other battle after this
where they had suffered this type of humiliation.
Always after this,
there was some form of victory
or Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had opened their doors
even without a battle in some cases.
But in this particular case,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala wanted to strengthen them,
to say you should obey instruction
and it is only through the obedience of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
that you will achieve success in this dunya,
in this world as well as in the life after death.
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam cried
when he saw his uncle Hamzah,
Ibn Abdul Muttalib.
What they had done was mutilated the bodies
of a lot of those who were martyred on that day.
And astaghfirullah,
they brought with them their women
in order to do that.
So Hamzah Ibn Abdul Muttalib,
Sayyid al-Shuhada,
the leader of the martyrs,
he was mutilated by a woman
known as Hind binti Utbah.
Because Utbah was one of those
who was killed by Hamzah in the Battle of Badr,
this woman was not at all comfortable
until she slit his belly.
Allahu Akbar, Allah safeguard us,
removed his liver and actually chewed on it.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us from this type of gruesome behavior
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us an understanding.
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam said very clearly,
Muslims do not mutilate.
You neither mutilate your body whilst you're alive.
And this is why permanent tattooing
and so on is all prohibited in Islam.
To pierce yourself in different places
besides the ears and perhaps the nose,
after that is not permissible in the Sharia.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us from mutilating our own bodies.
And may He make us understand
what is mutilation in the first place.
Because many people don't know.
This body is entrusted to us by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
He's going to take it back
and He's going to ask us
how did we look after it and protect it?
How can we say,
okay, I made a hole here and a hole there and a hole there
and this may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us and safeguard us.
We've only spoken about something very light.
But believe me, the Sharia has deep laws
which would actually result
if we followed them in our success in this world
as well as in the next.
May Allah make it easy for us.
And this is why Safiyah binti Abdul Muttalib,
the sister of Hamza radiallahu anhu,
she wanted to see the body of her own brother.
Now there was a rule that was passed
by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam.
Don't let the women come
and see the bodies of their own relatives.
Why? Because those who are mutilated,
they may go back with a very different image of this person.
It is best that they go with the image they recall.
And this is why the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
told them take Safiyah back
and do not let her look at her brother.
It may hurt her heart emotionally and so on.
And the picture that remains,
the image that remains in the mind
will always be that of someone totally mutilated.
But Safiyah was one exception.
She spoke to the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
and said, oh messenger, I will bear patience.
I will make dua.
I will not be emotional
and start screaming and yelling and so on,
but I need to see my brother.
And so for her, permission was granted.
But we learned a lesson
that sometimes when a death happens
and it is not so good to the eye,
it is definitely an Islamic ruling
to stop some of the family members
from looking at that particular face
if perhaps it is heavily injured or mutilated
and sometimes perhaps in a few pieces,
say after a car crash or so on,
may Allah protect us.
Sometimes you have instances
where the faces or the head
is actually broken into pieces.
May Allah safeguard us.
It is not wrong for the ulama to get up
and family members to say,
look, the women folk,
you will not be allowed
to view the face of this particular person.
This is from the teaching of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam.
It is best for them to have the last good image
within their minds
than to have an image
which will remain forever and ever.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us all and grant us goodness.
As for Wahshi, that man,
he reports that when I killed Hamza radiallahu anhu,
immediately something struck me.
I knew I was going to be a free man
as per the promise of Jubair ibn Mut'im
who was my master.
And at the same time,
I felt enslaved by something else.
I felt captured by something far greater
than the enslaving that I was in.
And he says to the degree
that when I was free,
I was back in Makkah,
but I couldn't do anything.
I could not sleep in the night.
I constantly thought of this deed
that I had engaged in
and I became a drunkard.
He says I became a drunkard so much so
that I was neither fit for living
nor for the dead.
And there came a degree,
a time when the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
marched on to Makkah al-Mukarramah
with his army.
He says I was too embarrassed.
I left and I went to Ta'if
and I spent some time there
until after the victory of Makkah,
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam sent for me
and I came to Makkah al-Mukarramah from Ta'if.
And he says when I saw the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam,
he asked me,
are you Wahshi?
Are you the killer of my uncle Hamza?
And Hamza was the uncle
and at the same time,
he was a foster brother of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam.
So he says yes.
So although Wahshi became a Muslim,
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
made one request to him.
He says look,
if you can stay away from me as far as possible,
every time I see you,
I remember my uncle.
Subhanallah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
This was one thing
and this is why Wahshi,
he says I lived
and I was so indebted to what had happened
because I felt so bad
until after Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam,
I heard of Musaylamah,
Al-Kadhaab,
the liar who claimed prophethood, Musaylamah.
He says and I made a dua to Allah,
Ya Allah, I'm joining the army
who is going to see this man and attack him
and Allah make me from amongst those
who can execute that liar
and indeed Allah granted him that
and this is when he felt a little bit at ease
when he was used to execute Musaylamah,
Al-Kadhaab,
the liar who had claimed prophethood
when the Muslims had gone there to attack him with his army.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection.
So this was Wahshi.
Then comes the burial of those
who had died in the battle of Uhud.
There were approximately 70 Muslims
who had been martyred in the battle of Uhud.
Most of them were from the Ansar.
And the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
asked who has memorized more Quran.
The one who memorized more Quran
was put into the grave first
and each grave had more than one person,
some of them two, some of them three,
depending on what was available
because they could not dig so many graves
and this is why in the Shari'ah,
the grave that you are buried in,
we in Islam allow
for burial in the same spot some time later
because once the body has decomposed into the soil,
it is now fit for re-burial.
In our parts of the world this doesn't happen
because I think in most cases
you purchase the little piece of land,
it becomes yours.
But where the Maqbara
or where the graveyard is Waqf,
it is an endowment,
you find that there is no harm in burying again
and again in the same place,
perhaps a year, two years, nine years, ten years later
as happens even in Baqi',
the graveyard of Madinatul Munawwara.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
So when they were burying,
they found a lot of these poor people.
Some of them were martyrs
in the path of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
after having fought and served Islam
for a long time,
such as Mus'ab ibn Romayr,
when he was brought to be buried,
there was nothing to cover him.
The Prophet ﷺ issued an instruction,
all those who were martyred,
there is no washing for them,
no ghusl for them.
They should be buried in their clothing
with the stains of blood.
They will be resurrected on the Day of Qiyamah,
the color will be the color of blood
and the smell will be the smell of musk.
This is what Rasulullah ﷺ had said.
But Mus'ab ibn Umayr,
when they covered his head,
his feet showed.
When they covered his feet,
his head showed.
So they did not have enough to cover him.
And the Prophet ﷺ makes mention of something
very very interesting.
He says this was one of the richest
of the youngsters of Makkah.
And today there is nothing to cover him.
And he has passed away in this condition.
من المؤمنين رجال صدقوا ما عاهدوا الله عليه
فمنهم من قضا نحبه
ومنهم من ينتظر
وما بدلوا تبديلا
From amongst the believers,
they are those who have fulfilled
their promise unto Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Some of them have been martyred
and the others are in waiting.
الله أكبر
Some of them have been martyred
and the others have been waiting.
The Prophet ﷺ says
حمزة ممن قضا نحبه
مصعب ممن قضا نحبه
He took names of people.
These are the people who have been martyred
fulfilling their promise unto Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So Mus'ab ibn Umayr,
the Prophet ﷺ says cover his head
and as for his feet,
you can use a bit of the idkhir,
a little bit of a branch
that you can actually cover it with
and that is how he was buried.
One narration in Zahidul Ma'ad
makes mention of Hamza ibn Abd al-Muttalib
with a similar condition.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
Remember,
what comes with us in the grave
is our deeds,
not our wealth
and not what we look like
but what comes into our graves,
our deeds.
So let us do the best of deeds
before it is too late
and prepare for the day
when we will pass away
and meet Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
On their return,
Hamnah binti Jahsh,
radiallahu anha,
she was told that your brother
has been martyred.
Abdullah ibn Jahsh has been martyred.
So she made a dua for him
and she said may Allah grant us the patience.
Then she was told your uncle
has also been martyred,
Hamza ibn Abd al-Muttalib.
She made a dua for him
and she was patient.
Then she was told
and your husband has also been martyred,
Mus'ab ibn Umair.
Then she yelled.
She let out a little bit of a scream.
Then she also made the dua and so on.
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
immediately said
the husband is closer to the heart
than the brothers and the uncles.
Subhanallah.
This is the heart of a woman.
If we are true husbands,
our wives become closer to us
than they are to their own family members.
Because we become the new family
and their children become the new blood.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
Look at Mus'ab ibn Umair.
What a powerful man he was.
He was such a gentleman,
such a sahabi,
radiallahu anhu.
He was lost or martyred in the battle of Uhud.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant him Jannah.
Then there is a woman,
a famous woman.
Her name is not mentioned
but she is a woman from
Banu Dinah.
They told her,
your husband is martyred,
your brother is martyred
and your father is martyred.
All three of them.
She said,
what about the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam?
What did the Prophet do?
What about the Prophet?
They said, no, he is fine.
He is okay.
She said, no, where is he?
I would like to look at him.
I want to see him.
And then they waited for a moment
until he came through.
When she saw him,
she smiled and said,
كل مصيبة بعده هينا
All difficulties after this are easy.
If he is okay,
everything else is fine.
Subhanallah.
This was the response
of the Sahabiyat at the time.
They were more concerned
about Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
than their own family members.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us goodness.
With us,
we sometimes become more concerned
about sinning
than we are about our link
with our own maker
and our link with Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
This was not an issue of sinning.
If she had cried
or if she had wept
or if something else had happened
in terms of her tears and so on,
it wouldn't have been bad.
She was worried.
ما فعل رسول الله
First question.
Leave all that.
Tell me about the Messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
When they told her he is okay,
she said, I want to see him.
As soon as she saw him,
she says,
كل مصيبة بعده هينا
All difficulties after this
they are easy, they are light.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us ease.
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam made dua
for the families of those
who were martyred on that particular day
and Allahu Akbar,
the Sahaba radi Allahu anhum
who had remained behind,
they ensured that they looked after the widows
and the orphans
and a lot of these widows
were married by the Sahaba radi Allahu anhum
who were left in order to look after them.
So much so that even the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
later on married and we will get to that.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
an understanding.
They had to look after these women
who were left behind.
They had to look after the children
who were left behind
and the best way to do so
was to marry this widow
in order for the children to be looked after
and for the widow to have some male
who will then look after her
and be her guardian.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us an understanding.
Now what had happened is
this was on the seventh day of Shawwal
according to most of the narrations
and they had gone back to Madinah Munawwara
they spent the night there
and they were waiting
because the kuffar had left.
They wanted to enter Madinah
but Allah had made them go away
because they were worried
that if we enter Madinah
there are so many warriors in Madinah
who have not taken part in this battle
they might get up
and they will attack us once again
and we might suffer big losses.
So what happened is
they had left.
After they left they got to a certain place
and they decided
or they were still deciding
Abu Sufyan was saying
let's go back.
We want to go back
and we want to attack Madinah.
And Safwani ibn Umayyah,
he says no, don't go.
He was a very intelligent man.
He says you see at the moment
we can consider ourselves victorious.
Why should we go and get a hiding?
Why should we go back there
and risk getting
or suffering loss?
Subhanallah.
So he said we're not going to go back.
However the messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was already instructed by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Seventh of Shawwal they came back.
They had injuries.
Some of those injured were still in Madinah and so on.
He prepared an army the next day
and he said we need to leave.
We need to go out
so that these people don't come into Madinah Munawwarah.
If they come into Madinah
we're going to have a problem.
We're going to have to fight them here on our streets
meaning in our own suburbs.
Rather we go out.
So Hamra al-Asad
is a place that they got to the following day
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
on the 8th of Shawwal
went with only those companions
who took part in the battle
besides one or two
who were granted permission to join them
and thereafter they went to Hamra al-Asad
and the mushriks had heard the news
that these people have camped out there
and this was also a means of showing them
that no matter what has happened
Allahu Akbar.
We are still ready to defend ourselves.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
وَلَا تَهِنُوا فِي بْتِغَاءِ الْقَوْمِ
Don't become slack in pursuit of these people.
Continue pursuing them.
إِن تَكُونُوا تَأْلَمُونَ
فَإِنَّ هُمْ يَأْلَمُونَ كَمَا تَأْلَمُونَ
وَتَرْجُونَ مِنَ اللَّهِ مَا لَا يَرْجُونَ
Allah says
if you are suffering pain and injuries
you should know that they too are suffering pain and injuries.
But the difference between you and them
is you have hope in Allah.
They don't have hope in anything.
Allahu Akbar.
So Allah says go and pursue them.
And these people went to Hamra al-Assad.
They spent some time there
and they came back to Madinatul Munawwarah.
Another verse that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has made mention of
which is very important.
Also teaching the Muslims
how their morale should be high at all times.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
Say to them O Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
هَلْ تَرَبَّصُونَ بِنَا إِلَّا إِحْدَ الْحُسْنَيَينَ
Are you waiting for anything to happen with us
besides the two points of goodness?
Nothing can happen to us besides goodness.
We will either be martyred so we will get paradise
or we will either be victorious
so we will have victory here.
So it's either victory here or victory there.
It's called إِحْدَ الْحُسْنَيَينَ
One of the two good things can happen to us.
We can never suffer a loss.
We are always in a win-win situation.
This is what the Quran says.
وَنَحْنُ نَتَرَبَّصُ بِكُمْ
And as for you, we are waiting.
We are waiting for what?
أَنْ يُصِيبَكُمُ اللَّهُ بِعَذَابٍ مِّنْ عِدِهِ أَوْ بِأَيْدِيْنَا
فَتَرَبَّصُوا إِنَّا مَعَكُمْ مُتَرَبِّصُونَ
We are waiting for Allah to punish you.
Either He punishes you on His own
or He punishes you with our hands.
Which means if you are victorious,
Allah will still get hold of you.
And if we are victorious,
Allah has punished you with our hands.
So wait, we are waiting with you.
Subhanallah.
So they are in a lose-lose situation
if we can coin that term quickly.
And we are in a win-win situation.
MashaAllah.
So this was a verse of the Quran
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had revealed,
boosting the morale of the believers
and it is an understanding for all of us.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
The final lesson I want to draw,
which I've already made mention of,
but once again we need to say
that two things that happened on that particular day
resulted in the suffering of the Muslims.
One was at tanazwa.
Tanazwa meaning debate
and arguing amongst each other.
Disunity.
You know, arguing.
Let's do this.
No, let's do that.
Because the Muslims on more than one occasion,
they were arguing and debating.
Should we do this?
Should we do that?
Shouldn't we do this?
Perhaps we should do this.
We should do that.
That resulted in loss.
So with us, if we disunite
and if we disintegrate
and if we create petty issues between us,
wallahi we will suffer a loss.
The Quran says,
وَالَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا بَعْضُهُمْ أَوْلِيَاءُ بَعْضٍ
The kuffar are protectors of one another.
No matter who they are, where they are,
they will always stand up for one another.
That's what the Quran says.
إِلَّا تَفْعَلُوهُ
تَكُونْ فِتْنَةٌ فِي الْأَرْضِ وَفَسَادٌ كَبِيرٌ
If you are not going to do exactly the same,
there is going to be great façade,
and great fitna on earth.
What is meant by exactly the same?
In the same way, the kuffar stand up for one another
no matter where they are, who they are.
You as Muslimin need to stand up for one another
no matter where you are, who you are.
Solution, subhanallah.
If we had to adopt just that one ayah today on the globe,
the problems of the globe would be resolved instantly.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us unity
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Part of the plot of shaitan,
small item, I hate you, I don't talk to you.
You're not a Muslim.
You're actually a kafir, astaghfirullah.
Those are the statements we hear these days.
People calling other Muslims non-Muslims.
Why don't we realize that that only serves
the interests of the enemy?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us all
and grant us ease and goodness.
So that was a point.
The second point, we've already spoken about it.
Never go against the instruction of Allah and His Rasul.
You cannot achieve happiness through
the displeasure of the owner of happiness.
You cannot achieve happiness
through the displeasure of the owner of happiness.
You cannot.
You cannot achieve sustenance or a happy home
through the owner of sustenance
and the owner of happiness in your home.
The only way to get health and happiness
and contentment and goodness and sustenance
is through the one who owns it
by obeying him and by becoming closer to him.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
In the third year of Hijrah,
the same year that this battle of Uhud took place,
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
married the daughter of Umar ibn Al-Khattab
رضي الله عنه
who was the widow of Khunais ibn Hudhafa,
a sahmi.
And this man had been injured in the battle of Badr.
According to the most correct narrations,
he was injured in the battle of Badr
and later on he passed away.
And listen to what happened.
Umar ibn Al-Khattab رضي الله عنه
he went to Uthman ibn Affan رضي الله عنه.
He says,
My daughter Hafsa,
I want you to marry her.
Look at this.
A man coming to his friend and saying,
I would like you to marry my daughter,
the widow of Khunais.
So he looks at Umar ibn Al-Khattab رضي الله عنه
and he says,
Look, I have no intention to get married right now.
Answer.
Which means he came out of it in a beautiful way.
And then he went to Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
Ya Aba Bakr,
I'd like you to marry my daughter Hafsa,
the widow of Khunais.
Abu Bakr was silent,
no response, no answer.
And he went away.
And Umar ibn Al-Khattab رضي الله عنه
felt that,
Why didn't I get a reply from this man?
At least he should have been like Uthman
and said somehow no, you know.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Today people feel bad when someone says no.
We feel bad,
so bad that we stop talking to people.
Wallahi, it's your right, be happy.
Perhaps your sustenance was not written there.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So now, some days later,
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
proposed to marry the daughter of Umar ibn Al-Khattab رضي الله عنه.
He was so happy and he agreed immediately.
The Nikah was done.
And later on Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
comes to him and says,
Oh Umar,
he says, yes.
He says, perhaps your heart was hurt
that I was quiet when you asked me to marry your daughter.
He says, yes.
I was expecting some form of reply.
He says, the only reason why I was silent
was the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
mentioned your daughter
and I didn't want to release his secret
to tell you that you know what,
let the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم marry her.
So I just remained silent.
I knew something you didn't know
and I didn't want to release it,
so he was silent.
The clarification, Subhanallah.
Because the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
was concerned about the widows of the Ummah.
Today, where are the people
who are concerned about the widows of the Ummah?
Forget about getting married to them.
That's one thing,
but not even rendering assistance to them.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى protect us.
Those were the Sahaba رضي الله عنهم
and that was Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
and the Sahaba,
look at Umar ibn Al-Khattab.
What a lesson we learned from him.
He went out actively telling people,
look, I want you to marry my daughter.
How many of us would do that today?
We have the shackles of culture
and our daughters and sisters are sitting at home
because they are cursed by the curse of culture.
So they are not married
because it's our fault, not theirs.
We did not get up, stand up
and look at the young men
who come to the Masjid Mashallah.
Brother, are you married? You're not married.
Who is your father?
I'd like to speak to him.
You know, I've got a daughter.
Who's going to know you've got a daughter?
Today, they have a policy.
Let your daughter be naked
and go to the mall and everywhere else
and go to another person's wedding
when she is half dressed
so that other people can see her and say,
wow, she's so beautiful.
I've got a son.
The seed that is sown is the seed of haram,
the seed of shaitan.
And then we want to get married.
In five minutes, there is a talaq and a divorce
and we're back home
because we did it the wrong way.
Where are the men?
Forget about your culture.
It is wrong.
It is totally in the bin, subhanallah.
Wallahi, we suffer because we have left Islam.
And that's a fact.
And I'm saying it,
I have pressed a red button
because it's a fact.
There are so many of our sisters
and daughters who are suffering out there
and we as men could not even be bothered.
We have so many people we meet on a daily basis
who are potential husbands for them
and we wouldn't talk because why?
Our culture says a woman must sit at home
and wait for the ceiling to open up
and a proposal drops from the top.
Allah protect us.
What's that?
Why can't we throw that away?
Look at Omar.
He was better than me and you.
He is one of those in Jannah
and he goes to his friends
and he goes to the others and say,
Please marry my daughter.
Would you marry my daughter?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
As I said, it's a point to learn.
It's about time we made mention of this.
There is nothing wrong.
In Islam, the proposal can come from either side.
The men or the woman.
Either side.
Either can show the interest
and there is nothing wrong.
People think,
No, you see, if we go out,
then it's like our daughter is inferior.
Perhaps if they were to come,
then we can say,
We gave you our daughter after you asked for it.
Wallahi, all this is culture.
That does not bring about happiness or sadness.
It's got nothing to do with Islam.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us an understanding.
So this was the marriage
of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Thereafter,
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
married another woman.
Her name was Zainab binti Khuzaima,
also a widow.
And this widow,
subhanallah,
she was either the widow of Abdullah ibn Jahsh.
If that was the case,
he was killed in Uhud.
He was martyred in Uhud.
Or she was,
according to some of the authentic narrations,
the widow of Ubaidullah ibn al-Harith,
who was martyred,
the first martyr on the day of Badr.
His name was Ubaidullah ibn al-Harith.
The more authentic narrations
point to Ubaidullah ibn al-Harith because
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
married Zainab binti Khuzaima in Ramadan.
And if that was the case,
the Battle of Uhud had not yet taken place.
So it couldn't have been Abdullah ibn Jahsh,
because he was only martyred
during the Battle of Uhud.
So it was Ubaidullah ibn al-Harith
and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
proposed for her.
She was known as Ummul Masakeen.
And these women were people
who had served Islam from Mecca.
And they were people who had served Islam
in a huge way.
And they were people who
had lost their family members.
They needed someone as their guardian.
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
got up and he showed,
laid the example.
He proposed for her Ummul Masakeen,
the mother of the poor.
She used to go and help the poor at all times.
And she was a very very generous person,
even though she did not have much of her own.
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam married her.
But the marriage only lasted
eight months because she passed away.
May Allah be pleased with her.
So this was the second wife
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
to pass away.
The first one was Khadija binti Khuwailid
radiallahu anha.
The second one was Zainab binti Khuzaima
She was only married eight months
and thereafter she passed away.
As we said, she was the widow.
She was a widow.
In the same year something very interesting,
a gift of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Al-Hasan ibn Ali radiallahu anhu was born
and this was the grandchild of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
most beloved to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
the son of Fatima binti Rasulillahi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anha.
Then also the same year,
the third year of Hijraq,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala sent the final verses
which made alcohol and intoxicants
completely prohibited.
Now we pause for a moment.
The people of Mecca used to drink a lot.
They used to trade in alcohol.
Even the people of Medina,
they used to drink a lot and trade in alcohol.
When we say drunkards,
the people used to drink so much
that they used to fight
and they used to fight so much
that it used to result in so many other difficulties
and problems later on when they were sober.
So much so that they were drunkards,
they used to take alcohol and women out to the wars.
As we saw Battle of Badr, Battle of Uhud,
these people brought large amounts of alcohol.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was given a verse.
They asked a question.
What is the ruling?
What is the ruling on alcohol and gambling?
So Allah says,
يَسْأَلُونَكَ عَنِ الْخَمْرِ وَالْمَيْسِرُ
O Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
they are asking you about alcohol and gambling.
Why were they asking?
They were asking
because people like Abu Bakr knew already
that this is bad.
If it wasn't bad, they wouldn't have asked.
Nobody asks me or asks you,
can I wear a jacket?
It's freezing today, subhanallah.
You'd be wearing the jacket.
It's not bad,
but now someone can say,
no, this is pig skin, can I wear it?
Because automatically something tells you
I need to ask a question here.
There's something wrong with it, perhaps.
So that's why they knew
that it causes so much problem.
Alcohol and gambling causes so much problem.
They asked.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
instead of banning it all at once,
making it difficult sometimes
for a person who is addicted to it,
had it happened, it would have happened.
But Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
قُلْ فِيهِ مَا إِثْمٌ كَبِيرٌ وَمَنَافِعُ لِلنَّاسِ
وَإِثْمُهُ مَا أَكْبَرُ مِنَّفِعِهِ مَا
Tell them, there is a great sin.
A great sin in alcohol and gambling.
But there is also a little bit of benefit.
But the sin outweighs the benefit.
And there is much more sin than benefit, harm.
Much more harm than benefit.
So from this,
a lot of the companions understood
if there is more harm than benefit,
we need to stay away from it.
So they started staying away from it.
Those who were drinking,
started cutting down and so on.
People like Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu,
the narrations make mention of the fact
that he never ever drunk, even before Islam.
He knew that this thing is bad.
Like Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
never went close to it
by the protection of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So what had happened thereafter
is after some time,
people used to drink
and then when they're in salah,
they didn't know what they were saying.
So they would make mistakes.
Now that is dangerous
because it's the word of Allah, the Quran.
So Allah says after some time,
another verse was revealed.
Ya ayyuha allatheena amanu la taqrabu s-salata wa antum sukaara
hatta ta'lamu ma taqoonoon
O you who believe,
do not come close to salah and prayer
in the condition of intoxication
until you know exactly what you are uttering.
So as a result, what happened?
The hours of drinking were cut down.
So they couldn't drink most of the time.
They could only drink perhaps after Isha
for a little while
because they would have to get up for Fajr
and perhaps in the morning.
And in the morning one wonders who would be drinking.
So in the afternoon they wouldn't be able to drink
because you have Salatul Asr.
After Asr, you have Maghrib which is not very far
and after that you have Isha.
So the only time was after Isha
and that too very few people would drink
until in the third year of Hijra.
The verse came down.
Ya ayyuha allatheena amanu
O you who believe,
innama al-khamru wa al-maysir wa al-ansab
wa al-azlamu rijisun min amali shaytaan
fajtanibuuhu la'alakum tuflihoon
O you who believe, indeed intoxicants
as well as gambling, as well as superstition
and ansab is what they used to do.
They used to sacrifice some animals in a specific way
which became prohibited.
So the superstitions as well as the ansab as lamb
and alcohol and drinking
this is abomination from the handiwork of the devil.
So stay far from it in order that you may succeed.
That became prohibited.
It became prohibited.
Some people say,
where is the prohibition of alcohol in the Quran?
If Allah tells you stay far from it,
it means it is worse than the ordinary sin.
Just like adultery Allah says,
wa la taqrabu zina
don't even go close to it.
That doesn't mean it's not prohibited.
It means even to get close to it is prohibited.
So the same applies here that it is so bad
stay very far from it.
Then Allah says,
Innama yuridu ash-shaytanu an yuqi'a baynakumu al-adawata
wa al-baghda'a fi al-khamri wa al-mainsir
Indeed,
shaytan wants to create enmity and hatred
between you in alcohol and gambling.
Through alcohol and gambling,
there is enmity, there is hatred,
there is problem, there is war.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
fa hal antum muntahoon
The verse continues that
shaytan intends to distract you from Salah
and the remembrance of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So are you going to leave it?
It's a question.
When this verse was revealed,
the Prophet salallahu alaihi wa sallam had read it.
The caller went out calling people,
ala innal khamra qad hurrim
He called out,
behold alcohol has been made prohibited.
Alcohol has been made prohibited.
It is reported that the gullies of Medina
were flowing with alcohol which people threw out
as a result of listening to a caller
calling the instruction of Allah
that alcohol is prohibited.
Subhanallah.
Look at how those who had it in their mouths spat it out.
Those who had it in their containers spat it out.
Whatever or should I say poured it out.
Whatever they had had, they poured it out.
Look at how they did not look at
how much I'm going to lose.
What might happen?
Hey, there's 200 liters here.
Perhaps I could sell it to those people of the book
and perhaps this, nothing of that nature.
Throw it out immediately.
These were Sahaba of Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wa sallam.
This was the prohibition of alcohol
as well as gambling.
Now one might ask when the Quran says
that gambling and alcohol,
there is some goodness and mostly harm.
Why was that said?
It's a good question.
So if you open the books of tafsir,
you find a point.
At the time what the Bedouin Arabs used to do,
whenever they gambled,
they knew that this is wrong
because 500 people are putting
perhaps a gold coin each
and one man goes away with everything,
the rest of them lost.
So actually more people lose than gain.
And the one who gains for your interest
and I have done a study,
it's not so difficult these days
with Sheikh Google so near.
If you look at all those who have won
huge lotteries on the globe,
their families have been destroyed
within a short space of time
and a lot of them have died drunkards
and people who have really suffered
because that is cursed money.
It is cursed to the degree,
it's not from your sweat,
you are taking risks,
you are eating other people's monies
and if those who take part in these lottoes
on a monthly basis
have to save that money for two or three years,
it becomes as big as one of the prizes.
Anyway, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding
and may He open our doors.
What they used to do at the time,
as soon as they win,
they give out the amount to charity.
They used to give out the amount to the poor,
to the charity
and this is why some of the scholars say
that this was the little goodness
that they used to talk about up to today.
There are people who tell you,
let me take part in the lottery,
if I win, I will go and give it to a charity.
Why should we say this?
And why should we even do it?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
You really want to give a charity?
Give your own wealth.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Something else that had happened
also in the third year of Hijrah,
very important.
The rules of inheritance were laid down
for your information.
At that particular time,
just before this,
women were inherited.
Someone dies, they would inherit the wife.
Someone else, for example,
owed someone money,
the daughter would be paid.
Someone else, for example,
had a problem with someone
and they would give their sister
or their daughter and so on.
When they died, this is what would happen.
And these women were treated like commodities.
And they were never ever spoken about
in terms of the wealth that the men had had.
They weren't even allowed to own anything of value.
It was to be used for the men.
That's it.
When Islam came,
it allowed individual ownership.
A woman can own and that is her property.
That's it.
Subhanallah.
No one has a say in it.
Besides herself, obviously,
she can be guided if she's doing something wrong.
But if she would like, that's her money,
nobody can usurp it from her.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant our women protection as well.
Sometimes from our own evil.
Sometimes we are the culprits
and we are the ones who oppress our own women.
So at this stage,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala revealed verses
declaring that eight categories of women
shall inherit wealth
and only four categories of men
shall inherit wealth.
So if you look at the number of categories of men
who inherit, four of them.
And if you look at the number of categories of women
who inherit, eight categories.
And on top of that,
the largest shares to be given
are to be given to women.
So you have a thuluthan,
which means two-thirds.
Two-thirds is given to whom?
Open the books which explain inheritance.
Open the Quran
and you will find
two-thirds is only used
where women are in the picture.
Subhanallah.
It's never used for men.
Another one,
50% of all wealth the husband gets
if the wife has left behind no children.
But in the case of a single daughter,
she collects 50% of what her father has left
or her mother has left.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
Now one might ask these laws of inheritance.
How were they laid down?
If we look at how they were laid down,
Allah says,
you O man have no choice
regarding how your wealth
shall be divided after you die.
You have no choice.
The wealth is ours.
It belonged to us.
We lent it to you for a while.
Once you die,
we will decide how it will be distributed.
That is the law of the Quran.
The only thing Allah has given me and you,
Allah says up to 33%,
you can give anyone whom we have not given.
So if Allah has given someone,
you cannot increase or decrease.
Never.
And if Allah has not given someone
from 33%,
you can actually write down a will to say,
I'd like to give this person so much.
The rest of it,
it's Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
He decides.
So whether you've got along with your son or not,
or whether your daughter listened to you or not,
they will definitely get from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
that's a share.
Unless they have engaged in a deed
which prohibits them from the share,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
safeguard us such as murder and so on,
in that particular case,
they will be blocked from receiving.
So this is why we need to know,
all of us,
and many Muslims don't know this for some reason,
it's in the Quran,
very loud and clear,
that Allah has decreed these as shares.
Now there is one other point we need to speak about,
and that is,
why is it that it seems that women get half of that of a male?
The answer is,
women actually get more than a male.
The male is a guardian.
He is supposed to look after the closest females to him.
And every female is to be looked after in Islam,
in terms of food, clothing and accommodation,
by her closest male relative,
either the husband,
or the adult son,
or the father,
or the brothers,
or the uncles.
If a woman has you as her closest male relative,
you are sinful if you don't provide her with food, clothing and accommodation.
Subhanallah.
That is Islam.
So women must be taken care of by their closest male relatives.
That's the law.
So why then do they need any wealth?
The truth is they don't.
They don't need it.
Allah gave them as a token,
just in case me and you don't look after them.
Subhanallah.
Amazing.
So when a man gets out of $75,000,
if a man gets $50,000,
and his sister gets $25,000,
from the $50,000,
that man has to look after his wife, his children,
and his family members,
as well as his own sister from the $50,000.
So it's divided into approximately eight people.
And the $25,000 she got, it's hers.
To save, to be happy.
To go, masha'Allah, now and again somewhere,
and to be able to spend a little bit of money.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant our women an understanding.
Wallahi, Islam has honored them,
and raised them far above
any other religion could have ever raised them.
And Allah has given them dignity,
and Allah has given them a position.
The difficulty is sometimes we as men
do not even know the position
that is granted to our women.
And sometimes not only do we not look after them,
but we cheat them out of their share of inheritance.
We don't even speak about it years pass,
and we don't even give them their share.
And yet sometimes we are sitting with everything.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us,
and grant us ease and goodness.
Insha'Allah, tomorrow,
we will look at more of what was revealed
in that particular year,
and we will go into the following year,
when there were several other skirmishes that took place.
And we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us protection in the same way
that He protected Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and his companions.
And we ask Allah to grant us Jannah
until we meet again.
Wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala Nabina Muhammad
Subhanallah wa bi hamdihi,
Subhanaka Allahumma wa bi hamdiki
Ash hadu an la ilaha illa anta
Nastaghfiruka wa natubuhi
Alhamdu Billahi Rabbil alamin
Ar Rahman Ar Raheem
Maliki Yawm al Deen
Iyyaka na'budu